For centuries, in the countries of south and Southeast Asia   the elephant   has been   an intimate part of the culture, economy and religion, and nowhere more so than in Thailand.几个世纪以来，在南部和东南亚国家大象一直是文化，经济和宗教的亲密组成部分，也没有地方比泰国更重视。 Unlike its African cousin,the Asian elephant is easily domesticated (驯化). 不像非洲的同类，亚洲象是很容易被驯化的。The rare so-called white elephants have actually lent the authority of kingship to its rulers and until the 1920s the national flag was a white elephant on a red background. 这种罕见的所谓的白象实际的王权赋予了统治者而且直到1920年他们国家一直是红底白象的旗帜。To the early Western visitors the country’s romantic name was “Land of the White Elephant”.早期西方探险者浪漫的称呼他们为’白象之国’。

　　Today, however, the story is very different.今天，然而这个故事非常不同。 Out of work and out of land, the Thai elephant struggles for survival in a nation that no longer needs it. 失业失去家园泰国象在一个不再需要他们的国家为了生存而奋斗。The elephant has found itself more or less abandoned by previous owners who have moved on to a different economic world and a westernized society. 大象发现他们自己或多或少的被之前的主人抛弃，他们搬到不同的经济世界和西化的社会。And while the elephant’s problems began many years ago, now it rates a very low national priority.白象的问题开始很多年以前，但是它的优先率很低。

　　How this reversal from national icon (圣像) to neglected animal came about is a tale of worsening environmental and the changing lives of the Thais themselves. 从圣象到被忽略的动物是如何逆转的是环境恶化和泰国人改变他们的生活方式发生的故事。According to Richard Lair, Thailand’s experts on the Asian elephant and author of the report Gone Astray, at the turn of the century there may well have beenas many as 100,000 domestic elephants in the country. 据理查德·莱恩所说，泰国报道关于亚洲象和报告的作者误入歧途。In the north of Thailand alone it was estimated that more than 20,000 elephants were employed in transport, 1,000 of them alone on the road between the cities of Chiang Mai and Chiang Saen.仅泰国北部估计超过2万头大象在运输业被雇佣，其中1000头在清迈市和清盛市之间的道路上。 This was at a time when 90 per cent of Thailand was still forest—a habitat (栖息地) that not only supported the animals but also made them necessary to carry goods and people.在当时泰国90%还是森林栖息地不仅支持动物也让他们携带必要的货物和人。 Nothing ploughs through dense forest better than a massive but sure-footed elephant.没有犁可以通过密集的深林比庞大而稳健的大象更好的。

　　By 1950 the elephant population had dropped to a still substantial 13,397, but today there are probably nomore than 3,800, with another 1,350 roaming free in the national parks.自1950年大象的数量已经大量下降到13397头，但是今天他们已经不超过3800头还有1350头在国际公园自由漫步。 But now, Thailand’s forest covers only 20 per cent of the land.但是现在泰国的森林覆盖面积仅剩20%。 This deforestation (采伐森林) is the central point of the elephant’s difficult situation, for it has effectively put the animals out of work. 采伐深林是大象面临的困难局面的重点，它影响了动物失去工作。This century, as the road network grew, so the elephant’s role as a beast of burden declined.本世纪，随着网络的发展，大象作为一头牲口的角色下降了。

